# Policy Document: Development Fund

*Last updated: September 2021*

*Last reviewed: September 2021*

## 1. Overview:

1.1 The SSAGO Development Fund is a sum of money within SSAGO that is there to aid the development of SSAGO and more broadly Guiding and Scouting. 

1.2. The money in the Development Fund is restricted to being used in line with this policy dosument. 

## 2. Maintenance:

2.1. The SSAGO development fund shall never be exhausted to below £2,000 and at such a point the SSAGO Exec should consult the Full Committee about future plans to replenish the fund.

2.2. The Development Fund will be replenished using 50% of any National Event surplus. Additional funds can be allocated to the Development Fund at the discretion of the National Exec.

2.3. The Development Fund will be used to cover any unexpected deficit of any National Event, with the Full Committee being informed, even if this expenditure brings the fund to below the amount set in 2.1..

2.4. The Development Fund may be spent in line with 3. subject to condition 2.1..

2.5. The Development Fund shall not exceed £7,500 and at such a point the SSAGO Exec should consult the Full Committee about future plans for the money.

2.6. The Development Fund will be reviewed a minimum of every 3 years by the SSAGO Executive and the amounts specified in 2.1., 2.5. and 4.3. shall be reviewed in-line with inflation and SSAGO's current and required reserves.

2.7. At any point the SSAGO Exec may declare the Development Fund is low-on-funds, even when the balance exceeds the minimum set out in 2.1., due to the amount of money on loan, to mitigate for a potential loss or other reason agreed by the exec, such declaration should be given to the Representative Committee. Any declaration the Development Fund is low-on-funds may be lifted by agreement of the national exec.

2.8. Should any declaration the Development Fund is low-on-funds be in place for over 6 months then this policy should be reviewed inline with 2.6.. 

## 3. Usage of the Development Fund:

3.1. The fund may be used to provide a Development Fund Grant as outlined in this policy.

3.2. The fund may be used to provide loans to SSAGO Clubs or Events, subject to approval of a budget and a repayment plan, which may or may not charge interest. Money on loan shall be counted as in the fund for the purpose of 2.1. and 2.5.. Where due, interest on such loans will be reinvested into the development fund.

3.3. Money from the fund may be placed into an investment fund at the discretion of the National Exec, with any interest generated by the fund being reinvested into the Development Fund.

3.4. The fund may be used by any other purpose agreed by the SSAGO Exec and voted on by a simple majority of the Full Committee, subject to 2.1. Any ongoing use of the development fund should be sustainable to the Development Fund in the future.

## 4. Development Fund Grant:

### 4.1. Aims:

4.1.1. The aims of the Development Fund Grant is to:

4.1.1.1. To provide opportunity to promote, publicise, grow or develop SSAGO.

4.1.1.2. To provide something of lasting value, for a minimum of 3 years.

4.1.1.3. To be of benefit to SSAGO members or to the Guiding or Scouting movements as a whole.

### 4.2. Applications:

4.2.1. Any members of SSAGO may apply to the development fund, either in groups such as clubs, events or as individuals. Subject to:

4.2.1.1. Applications from a SSAGO Club must be seconded by one of the Chair, President, Secretary or Treasurer of the Club.

4.2.1.2. Applications from a SSAGO Event must be seconded by one of the Chair, Secretary or Treasurer of the Event.

4.2.1.3. Applications from a group of individuals must be submitted and seconded by all those involved.

4.2.1.4. Applications from associate or honorary members must outline how the application benefits full members of SSAGO.

4.2.2. The maximum value of one application is £350. 

4.2.3. Applications must be completed online on the SSAGO website.

4.2.4. The applicants should be prepared to answer any questions posed by the SSAGO Exec.

4.2.5. All applications must:

4.2.5.1. Meet the aims of the development fund listed above.

4.2.5.2. Have considered alternative funding sources, and details of any secured funding must be provided.

4.2.5.3. Have considered any way(s) the same aim can be achieved at a lower or no cost.

4.2.5.4. Not be for routine expenses or items or, in the case of an event, not for expenses which the amount would normally be budgeted for. What is considered acceptable is at the discretion of the SSAGO Exec.

4.2.5.5. Have completed the application form in full.

4.2.5.6. Provide evidence in support of the application where appropriate. 

4.2.5.7. Be for the purpose of developing a SSAGO club, National SSAGO, Scouting or Guiding.

4.2.5.8. Primarily be for the benefit or use of full members of SSAGO.

4.2.5.9. State any Conflicts of Interest they may have with bid.

### 4.3. Approval of Applications:

4.3.1. The SSAGO Exec may ask for clarification or further details on any aspect of the bid, and defer a decision on the bid until such details have been recieved.

4.3.2. The SSAGO Exec will decide if the application satisfies the conditions set out in 4.2. and meets the aims of the fund. Otherwise the bid shall be rejected as not meeting the aims of the fund.

4.3.3. Applications deemed to satisfy the conditions in 4.2 may be approved, subject to 2.1., or rejected.

4.3.4. Applications due for approval while the development is declared to be low-on-funds may be defered until the declaration is lifted, if it is still relevant to consider the application at this point.

4.3.5. Where any application does not satisfy 4.2. but the SSAGO Exec feels it would be a beneficial investment for both SSAGO and the club it may be taken to the next Representative Committee meeting to be voted on for approval in line with 3.4..

4.3.6. Where any member of the National Exec is part of an applying club, event committee, in a relationship with an applicant, or other situation which could give rise to a percieved interest then the decision as to if the application satisfies the aims and the decision as to if it should be funded should be refered to the full board of trustees and the Conflict of Interest policy followed.

4.3.7. If the Exec or Trustees as a whole or any Trustee individually are approved by the trustees under 4.3.6. to use the Development Fund then final approval should be saught from the Representatives Committee, who can approve this by simple majority.   

### 4.4. Successful Applications:

4.4.1. Any successful applicants must present a verbal and written report at the next Representative Committee Meeting stating how the money will be or has been used and how this has met the aims of the development fund. 

4.4.2. Within 6 months of the money being handed over the applicant must provide evidence of its proper expenditure to the SSAGO Exec. This timescale may be altered at the discretion of the SSAGO Exec depending on the type of project involved.

4.4.3. Failure to provide evidence of proper expenditure within the timescale will result in the money having to be returned to SSAGO immediately.

### 4.5. Appeals:

4.5.1. Where an application is deemed not meet the aims of the fund it may be appealed in writing to the SSAGO Exec. Appeals should be received within 4 weeks of notice of not meeting the aims and an updated application shall be voted on by the full board of Trustees. The Trustees may ask for an indicitive vote of the Representative Committee, however any such vote will be non-binding. 

4.5.2. Where an application is deemed to meet the aims of the fund but rejected (but not deferred) it may be appealed in writing to the SSAGO Exec. Appeals should be received within 4 weeks of notice of rejection and an updated application shall be voted on at the:

4.5.2.1 next Representative Committee meeting, if the appeal is received at least two weeks in advance of the meeting date.

4.5.2.2 the following Representative Committee meeting, if the appeal is received in the the two weeks preceding the next committee meeting date.

4.5.3. If the Representative Committee rejects an application brought under 4.3.7. then an updated application may be brought to the next Representative Committee meeting subject to reapproval by the Board of Trustees.
